Mental Math Shortcut
1. Problem
Original image: Calculate using a shortcut.
Calculate:
2. Method 1: Use the Average
Look at the 4 numbers inside the parentheses:
They are all close to 784:
The extra amounts and missing amounts cancel out:
So the sum inside the parentheses is:
The original expression becomes:
Since 25 × 4 = 100:
Answer: 78400
3. Method 2: Pair the Numbers
Pair the numbers inside the parentheses:
Both pair sums are the same:
So the sum inside the parentheses is:
Now multiply by 25:
Think of 25 as 100 ÷ 4:
Answer: 78400
4. Method 3: Break into Hundreds, Tens, and Ones
Visual aid: Break each number into 700, 80, and the ones part.
Break each number inside the parentheses into place values:
So the sum inside the parentheses can be written as:
Combine the same place values:
Add the ones digits:
So the sum inside the parentheses is:
Now multiply by 25:
Answer: 78400
5. Final Answer
Final answer: 78400